> 5. Editing 2: Selections (still in tardline)
>    Create a Selection
>    Copy
>    Paste
>    Cut
>    Paste
>    Cut single element
>
>    Show it works also in phrases
>
>    Cloning

In previous lessons, we've seen that we could use a single tap on eh to add an item, a double tap on eh to create the first empty instance of a chain or phrase and eh plus bee simultaneously to delete the highlighted items.

On top of those very basic editing features, little g p tracker also supports regular copy/paste functions allowing for more powerful edits.

The basic manoeuvre is to create a selection. To do so, go to the beginning of the block to select and press simultaneously the left shoulder and bee button. Now extend the block using the arrows.

Once the block has been defined, you have the choice to either copy it, by pressing bee or to cut it by pressing simultaneoulsy the left shoulder button and eh. No matter if you chose to copy or cut the data, it will be put in the clipboard and can be pasted using left shoulder and A.


This process works in most of the editing screen. Let's for example go in a chain, select the two first phrases and copy them in position 3 and 4. Start the selection with the left shoulder and bee, extend the selection and press bee again to copy it. Now move to step 3 and press the left shoulder and eh to paste the data. 

Let's now enter a phrase, do a selection and cut it's content by pressing left shoulder and eh and paste it somewhere else by pressing left shoulder and eh again.

If you want to cut a single element, you can always use eh and bee simultaneously. The single element will also be put in the clipboard for easy pasting somewhere else. 

Let's go back to the song screen, and let's cut the four chains here. Now let's paste them here. Note that cutting in the song screen will shift all the row underneath de selection upwards while pasting them will shift them down.

The last operation related to editing is the process of cloning. Cloning is a powerful way to create a new element that is a copy of another. It's very handy to start from an existing base and alter it. You can clone chains, phrase, instruments and tables.

If we go in chain zero two we see it plays phrases eh two bee two. In our arrangment we would like to use a similar structure but change the ending chain. Let's first listen to this chain.

Now we go back to the song screen, copy the chain and paste it underneath. To clone the chain, hold down the left shoulder and press bee then eh, holding the left shoulder pressed. We have now created a new chain but it's content is the same as the original one. Since we wanted to alter the last phrase, we got down to the fourth step and clone it. Again, we made a fresh copy of the original phrase that we can now alter to our will.

The new chain sounds now like this
